# Problems on the code level
We have looked for duplicated code with [SonarQube](http://www.sonarqube.org/). This tool found 313 lines of code (LOC) in a total of 31,760 LOC. Thus only 1% of the Alitheia Core project is duplicate code. The project contains 15,688 LOC with Java, the rest is comments or whitespace. We investigated a few instances of code duplication. One of them is `BugResolution` (lines 121-135) and `BTSEntry` (lines 203-216). 

Solution Sprawl

Long Method

SonarQube is also able to calculate the complexicity of the code. The [complexity metrics](http://docs.codehaus.org/display/SONAR/Metrics+-+Complexity) used by SonarQube is count every  `if`, `for`, `while`, `case`, `catch`, `throw` and `return` statement. The `PluginsView` has the highest complexity per function, but also a high amount of code per method.

inCode found nine God classes, two of them are scoring a 10 out of 10 (`GitUpdater` and `ContributionMetricImpl`). The `GitUpdater` 767 LOC, but another bigger class called `SVNUUpdaterImpl` has 993 LOC. 

Both the `ContributionMetrixImpl` and the `GitUpdater` classes have many methods, use many attributes from many external classes. The `GitUpdater` class also contains multiple to-do's and code that is commented out. These two classes keep track of many things and can perform many actions, therefore they violate the single responsbility principle.

SonarQube is also able to detect a lot of other issues. In Alitheia Core are 1770 issues. These issues can point out confusing code formatting, like inconsistently placing curly braces. Also more important issues like never throw generic exceptions, such as `Exception`, are detected in the Alitheia Core project.
